readded everything (#104)
MrLongbottom/P10-Article: sections/plate_notation.tex

> \section{Our Topic Models}\label{sec:plate_notation}\vejleder{Proposed Topic Models, eller rename til noget mere fornemt}

Author: ```suggestion
\section{Proposed Topic Models}\label{sec:plate_notation}
```

In this section, we detail the modifications that we have implemented to describe our proposed topic models, outlined in \autoref{sec:preliminaries}.
We present three models, one for each of the metadata fields detailed in \autoref{sec:dataset}.

> Two of the models: the Author and Category metadata models are based on the Author-topic \gls{lda} explained in \autoref{subsec:auth_prelim}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Two of the models: the Author and Category metadata models are based on the Author-topic model explained in \autoref{subsec:auth_prelim}.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Two of the models: the Author and Category metadata models are based on the Author-topic model are explained in \autoref{subsec:auth_prelim}.
```

> Two of the models: the Author and Category metadata models are based on the Author-topic \gls{lda} explained in \autoref{subsec:auth_prelim}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Two of the models: the Author and Category metadata models are based on the Author-topic \gls{lda} are explained in \autoref{subsec:auth_prelim}.
```

> Lastly the Taxonomy metadata model is based on \gls{pam}, which is explained in \autoref{subsec:pachinko_prelim}.

Author: ```suggestion
The Taxonomy metadata model is based on \gls{pam}, which is explained in \autoref{subsec:pachinko_prelim}.
```

> Lastly the Taxonomy metadata model is based on \gls{pam}, which is explained in \autoref{subsec:pachinko_prelim}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lastly, the Taxonomy metadata model is based on \gls{pam}, which is explained in \autoref{subsec:pachinko_prelim}.
```

> Lastly the Taxonomy metadata model is based on \gls{pam}, which is explained in \autoref{subsec:pachinko_prelim}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Lastly, the Taxonomy metadata model is based on \gls{pam}, which is explained in \autoref{subsec:pachinko_prelim}.
```

> \subsection{Author-Topic \gls{lda} and Category-Topic \gls{lda}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\subsection{Author-Topic model and Category-Topic model}
```

> We model both of the metadata fields 'Author' and 'Category' similarly to the model by \citet{author_topic_2012} presented in \autoref{subsec:auth_prelim}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We model both the author and category metadata fields similarly to the model by \citet{author_topic_2012}.
```

> The category model builds on the assumption that categories of the articles were chosen based on the content of the article and that local newspapers have their own unique topic preferences \vejleder{hvordan afspejles det i modellerne?}.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The category model is based on the assumption that, categories of the articles were chosen based on the content of the article and that local newspapers have their own unique topic preferences \vejleder{hvordan afspejles det i modellerne?}.
```

Author: syntes at det komma er lidt sært

> The category model builds on the assumption that categories of the articles were chosen based on the content of the article and that local newspapers have their own unique topic preferences \vejleder{hvordan afspejles det i modellerne?}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The category-topic model builds on the assumption that categories of the articles were chosen based on the content of the article and that local newspapers have their own unique topic preferences \vejleder{hvordan afspejles det i modellerne?}.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The category-topic model is based on the assumption that categories of the articles were chosen based on the content of the article and that local newspapers have their own unique topic preferences.
```

> We find this model to be generally applicable to most metadata information, assuming that the metadata is either chosen based on the text of the documents\vejleder{hvad med det?} (as with the category metadata) or that it has some impact on the text of the document (as with the author metadata).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We find this model structure to be generally applicable to most metadata information, assuming that the metadata is either chosen based on the text of the documents\vejleder{hvad med det?} (as with the category metadata) or that it has some impact on the text of the document (as with the author metadata).
```

> We find this model to be generally applicable to most metadata information, assuming that the metadata is either chosen based on the text of the documents\vejleder{hvad med det?} (as with the category metadata) or that it has some impact on the text of the document (as with the author metadata).

Reviewer 3: lyder lidt underlig med de der parenteser

> For our category-topic model and our author-topic model, each document $d$ is associated with only one category $c_d$ from a set of categories $C$ and only one author $a_d$ from a set of authors $A$, rather than a vector.

Author: ```suggestion
For our category-topic model and our author-topic model, each document $d$ is associated with only one category $c_d$ from the set of all categories $C$ and only one author $a_d$ from the set of all authors $A$, rather than a vector.
```

Author: ```suggestion
For our category-topic model and our author-topic model, each document $d$ is associated with only one category $c_d$ from the set of all categories $C$ and only one author $a_d$ from the set of all authors $A$.
This is different from \citet{author_topic_2012}, where each document has a vector of authors.
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For our category-topic model and our author-topic model, each document $d$ is associated with only one category $c_d$ from the set of all categories $C$ and only one author $a_d$ from the set of all authors $A$, rather than multiple associations as \citet{author_topic_2012}.
```

> For our category-topic model and our author-topic model, each document $d$ is associated with only one category $c_d$ from a set of categories $C$ and only one author $a_d$ from a set of authors $A$, rather than a vector.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For our category-topic model and our author-topic model, each document $d$ is associated with only one category $c_d$ from a set of categories $C$ and only one author $a_d$ from a set of authors $A$, rather than a vector, respectively.
```

This is due to our dataset never having more than one author or category for each document.
Unless otherwise stated, future mentions of the author-topic model are to our implementation of this model, rather than the model presented by \citet{author_topic_2012}.

> The plate notation for our category and author \gls{lda} models can be seen in \autoref{fig:metadata_lda}.

Author: ```suggestion
The plate notation for our modified category and author \gls{lda} models can be seen in \autoref{fig:metadata_lda}.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The plate notation for our modified category and author models can be seen in \autoref{fig:metadata_lda}.
```

> The plate notation for our category and author \gls{lda} models can be seen in \autoref{fig:metadata_lda}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The plate notation for our category-topic and author-topic models can be seen in \autoref{fig:metadata_lda}.
```

\subsection{Pachinko Allocation}\vejleder{make sure that you talk about the original pachinko model and not our modification}
In order to handle the hierarchical structure of the taxonomy metadata field, we use a hierarchical topic model, namely the \acrfull{pam} from \citet{li2006pachinko}.
Pachinko allocation generalizes \gls{lda}, making it possible to construct topic hierarchies based on any \gls{dag} structure.
\gls{pam} is a topic model focusing on finding topics of different abstraction levels and modeling the connections between these topics.

Each node in the \gls{dag} structure represents a topic in the pachinko allocation model. 
However, unlike \gls{lda} where topics are distributions over words, in \gls{pam} topics are multinomial distributions over words and/or other topics further down the hierarchy of the \gls{dag} structure.

> An example of the \gls{dag} structure used in this paper is in \autoref{fig:pachinko_dag} where each level of the \gls{pam} is shown.

Author: ```suggestion
\autoref{fig:pachinko_dag} shows an example of the \gls{dag} structure used in this paper.
```

The idea behind the \gls{dag} structure is to be able to model correlations between topics and in turn make more coherent topics.
  

> In this paper, we use a layered \gls{pam}, as in \cite{li2006pachinko}, meaning that the \gls{dag} structure is divided into layers where each layer is fully connected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this paper, we use a layered \gls{pam}, as in \cite{li2006pachinko}, meaning that the \gls{dag} structure is divided into layers where each layer is fully connected to the next layer.
```

> However, \citet{li2006pachinko} use four layers where we use five to capture more taxonomy fields.

Author: ```suggestion
However, \citet{li2006pachinko} use four layers where we use five to capture more of the underlying information in the taxonomy metadata.
```

> We replicate some layers in our \gls{dag} structure based on the structure from the taxonomy field within our dataset, having some nodes represent a topic based on a specific taxonomy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We construct some layers in our \gls{dag} structure based on the structure from the taxonomy field within our dataset, having some nodes represent a topic based on a specific taxonomy.
```

An example of this can be seen in \autoref{fig:pachinko_dag}, where we have the node "STEDER", and this is connected to "Danmark" in the third layer.
To make the algorithm construct the topics to be based on our taxonomies, we introduce a novel locking mechanism for the Gibbs sampler which we use to run \gls{pam}.

> This mechanism is discussed further in \autoref{subsec:mod_pachinko}.

Reviewer: Hvis afsnittet fjernes "at the end of this section"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This mechanism is discussed further at the end of this section.
```

We use a five-level\vejleder{hvorfor bruger vi en 5 lag} pachinko tree structure, following the format presented by \citet{li2006pachinko}.
The first layer is the root layer which all topics are a part of.
The last layer is the word layer consisting of one node for each word in the vocabulary of our corpus.

> The second and third layers will be constructed based on the entries of the first two positions in our taxonomy metadata, meaning there will be one node for each unique sub-taxonomy entry that is in the first or second position in the taxonomy sequence (e.g. "STEDER" and "Danmark", which is taken from "STEDER/Danmark/Aalborg", but not "Aalborg" since it is in the third position).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second and third layers will be constructed based on the entries of the first two positions in our taxonomy metadata, meaning there will be one node for each unique sub-taxonomy entry that is in the first or second position in the taxonomy sequence (e.g., "STEDER" and "Danmark", which is taken from "STEDER/Danmark/Aalborg", but not "Aalborg" since it is in the third position).
```

> We only use the first two layers for this, as these are among the most informative, and because introducing even more layers would slow down the training significantly, since the probability of all possible combinations of topics needs to be sampled for every word during training.

Reviewer: Kommer vel an på om man ser generel information eller specifik information som mere informativ.

Author: du tænker på 'as these are among the most informative'?
ja den er måske lidt iffy

> We only use the first two layers for this, as these are among the most informative, and because introducing even more layers would slow down the training significantly, since the probability of all possible combinations of topics needs to be sampled for every word during training.

Author: ```suggestion
We only use the first two layers for this, because introducing even more layers would slow down the training significantly, since the probability of all possible combinations of topics needs to be sampled for every word during training.
```

> From our experiments, the training time for 50 epochs, increases from 12 hours to 130 hours between four and five level pachinko.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
From our experiments, the training time for $50$ epochs increases from $12$ hours to $130$ hours between four and five-level pachinko.
```

> The fourth layer consists of $K = 90$ 'blank' topics, as with the other models we present in this paper.

Reviewer: Det ved de ikke på dette tidspunkt. 
```suggestion
The fourth layer consists of $K = 90$ 'blank' topics, where the value of $90$ comes from a grid search described in \autoref{sec:experiment_gridsearch}.
```

> This layer is added so that the model can construct its own topics based on the higher-level topics learned from our taxonomy metadata.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This layer is added so that the model can construct its topics based on the higher-level topics learned from our taxonomy metadata.
```

Author: ```suggestion
This layer is added so that the model can construct sub-topics based on the higher-level topics learned from our taxonomy metadata.
```

Author: ```suggestion
This layer is added so that the model can construct topics based on the higher-level topics learned from our taxonomy metadata.
```

> \input{figures/dag_structure}

Reviewer 3: Skal vi gøre sådan at de 2 tax layers er observed?(altså blå)

> \subsubsection{Modification to Pachinko Allocation}\label{subsec:mod_pachinko}

Author: ```suggestion
```
vejleder har flere gange sagt at dette nok ikke bør være en subsection, vi skal bare lige fikse cites.

> \subsubsection{Modification to Pachinko Allocation}\label{subsec:mod_pachinko}

Reviewer: Skulle måske bare fjernes

\vejleder{hvordan ? algoritmisk?}
Normally when working with topic modeling, one does not know which topics will be present in the document set before training the model.

> However, the taxonomy metadata fields provide some general subject names of different levels of abstraction and some amount of documents attached to these subject names.

Reviewer 3: hva?

This provides a unique opportunity for using the existing taxonomies as higher-level topics.
Without modification, \gls{pam} will find topics with the same structure as our taxonomy, but the taxonomy values would be disregarded during training since it would generate new taxonomy sequences.

> However, in our case, we have a partially observed taxonomy and we want to use the existing meta-information to estimate the topics quicker and more accurately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, in our case, we have a dataset with a partially observed taxonomy field (${\sim}25\%$ of the documents), and we want to use the existing metadata information to estimate the topics quicker and more accurately.
```

> Although, only ${\sim}25\%$ of the documents in our dataset have an observed taxonomy.

Reviewer 3: Hvad gør vi med topic layers? er de fastsat for hver dokument som har en taxonomy og så vælger vi bare et topic i den sequence?

> Although, only ${\sim}25\%$ of the documents in our dataset have an observed taxonomy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> To account for this, we lock taxonomy for the words in the observed documents to be in the corresponding topics within the \gls{pam} \gls{dag} instead of continuously sampling them using Gibbs sampling.

Reviewer: omformuler. Konklusionen beskriver det muligvis lidt bedre

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To account for this, we only sample the unobserved nodes within the topic sequence, which is the topic layer.
```

Author: ```suggestion
To account for this, we only sample the unobserved nodes within the topic sequences.
For some of the dataset only the fourth layer is unobserved, but for the ${\sim}75\%$ documents without a taxonomy sequence, all layers are unobserved.
The observed taxonomy sequences are never sampled, hence they are 'locked' in place.
```

> To account for this, we lock taxonomy for the words in the observed documents to be in the corresponding topics within the \gls{pam} \gls{dag} instead of continuously sampling them using Gibbs sampling.

Author: ```suggestion
To account for this, we only sample the unobserved parts of the topic sequence.
The parts of the topic sequence that are observed for the document are "locked", never changing.
```

> This creates a constant context for the taxonomy topics, which the documents with unobserved taxonomies will be fitted around.

Author: ```suggestion
This creates a constant context for the taxonomy topics, which the documents with no observed taxonomy sequence will be fitted around.
```

Author: ```suggestion
This creates a constant context for the taxonomy topics, which the documents with unobserved taxonomy sequences will be fitted around.
```

The category-topic model is based on the assumption that categories of the articles were chosen based on the content of the article and that local newspapers have their own unique topic preferences.
We find this model structure to be generally applicable to most metadata information, assuming that the metadata is either chosen based on the text of the documents\vejleder{hvad med det?} (as with the category metadata) or that it has some impact on the text of the document (as with the author metadata).

For our category-topic model and our author-topic model, each document $d$ is associated with only one category $c_d$ from the set of all categories $C$ and only one author $a_d$ from the set of all authors $A$.
This is different from \citet{author_topic_2012}, where each document has a vector of authors.
This is due to our dataset never having more than one author or category for each document.
Unless otherwise stated, future mentions of the author-topic model are to our implementation of this model, rather than the model presented by \citet{author_topic_2012}.
The plate notation for our category-topic and author-topic models can be seen in \autoref{fig:metadata_lda}.

> \subsection{Pachinko Allocation}\vejleder{make sure that you talk about the original pachinko model and not our modification}

Author: ```suggestion
\subsection{Pachinko Allocation}\label{subsec:pam}\vejleder{make sure that you talk about the original pachinko model and not our modification}
```
